Hello everyone and welcome to the Gengel basic forms lecture for doing a level 3 and this lecture where
we're going to be doing is conceptually walking through the process of creating a form with jingoes
So to actually do any coding you can just sit back relax and watch this lecture almost like a game plan
for the next lecture.
We're going to be coding through a lot of the topics we discuss here.
All right.
We've covered forums when discussing HMO so you might be wondering why bother with jingle forms.
What extra features do they bring to the table.
Well jingle forms have lots of advantages.
And here are three distinct ones.
The first one is that they can quickly generate HVM malformed widgets.
Those are things such as your inputs where you have to specify that input will be email type or a text
type text area type etc. checkboxes forms with Django allow you to just generate those quickly like
with template tagging.
Another advantage is that you can validate data and process it into a python data structure so you can
quickly use it in the backend.
You can also make your own custom validation rules and then the third point is that you can create form
versions of our models and then quickly update models from forms and we'll talk about that in a future
lecture OK.
So let's actually walk through the steps you would have to take in order to create a form on your website
from your web application and the very first thing you do is actually create a forms that PI file inside
your application just like we previously created you or els the PI file inside the application.
We have to create a form that PI file because it doesn't come standard.
After that we call jingoes builtin forms classes.
And this looks very similar to creating a model of Django.
Let's see an example of this.
So an example of what would be inside your forms up-I file inside of your application would be something
like this.
You say from just import forms and then you have a class form name forms that form where every input
is essentially a class object attribute.
Now you should notice that this looks a lot like creating a model with Django.
So that's really good because you can have that similar feel across various aspects of jingoes.
You don't need to re learn a completely different paradigm for creating a form it feels and looks like
a model again looks similar to a model and now that we have the form created inside the applications
forms that high file we need to show it using a view so inside your views that py file of your application
we need to import the forms and there's two ways to do this.
One is you can say from import forms and dot just means look at the current directory or you can do
what we've been doing in the past and actually explicitly saying from form's import and then that actual
quorum name.
So if we go back we called the class form name.
So if you were inside of your views that PI file you would say from that forms that PI file you just
created import that class object form name.
And again that dot just indicates to import or in the same directory as a current high file either one
of these methods is ok once you've imported the form you can create a new view for it and it looks really
similar to when you're recreating a view and calling a model.
Except this time you're actually calling it form.
So you say your function the form named you whatever you want that actually used to be called it takes
in a request to create a temporary object called form equals Gorham's dot and then whatever your classes
again that's the forms that PI file the class from it set that equal to a variable and then return render
pass and request pass in the name of the HVM elf child is going to hold that form and then you pass
in the context dictionary where you have some key Reim back that form from form name.
Again very similar feel to how we are working with models in our views that py file and then all you
have to do is add the view to the apps you are else either directly or with the include function.
If you do it directly it just looks something like this.
You'll say from your application import views and then somewhere inside you your old patterns file you'll
say that your function passen the actual extension of your your all that you want the form to be on
be used whatever the view is called.
So in this case we call that form name view and then you give it a name such as form name again using
really generic terms here.
So you can later replace them with your own names.
All right.
So we can then create the templates folder along with a steam file that will hold the actual template
tagging for the form.
And remember to update the settings up-I file to reflect the new template directory variable.
We did the anjing a level one so you can review it or you can watch the next lecture where we'll go
and start the process from scratch.
So you can remember how to actually fix that and you're setting up my file.
Ok then you should also remember that your views should reflect subdirectories inside templates.
And again we'll talk about that when we walk through it in the next lecture.
And once you've done that everything is set up for us to go into the form name a simple file or whatever
each team l files going to How's the actual form itself and that's going to be usually placed inside
your templates folder and then the subdirectory every application folder and add in the actual template
tagging that will create the jingle form.
So just like we inject it of template tagging stuff from the model we can quickly inject the actual
form.
So there are several ways you can inject the form using template tagging.
You can just pasand the key from the context dictionary.
So remember the key from the context dictionary we had was just form.
So you would just have these sort of Crilley brackets and passen form usually won't see it so plainly.
But this is technically all you have to do and before we continue let's have a quick side discussion
about three topics.
HTP get and post since we're going to be using those to connect our form to our actual back and HTP
stands for hypertext transfer protocol.
And it is designed to enable communication between a client and a server.
The client submits a request and then the server responds.
The most commonly used methods for this request response protocol are get and post get request data
from a resource and then post submits data to be processed to a specific resource.
Again pretty simple idea a request and then a response.
So those are the basics that we need to know for now.
But you can check out the W3 schools dot com page on get slash post for a lot more details like what
remains in browser history whether using GET or POST and what can be cast for future use.
It's a really simple concept so you can just check out that page.
But basically you just need to know that you're using a sort of request response protocol when working
with forms and once you've put in that form template tag you should be able to see a very basic and
honestly ugly looking form on that page.
However you won't actually have an HMO form tag there so let's look at a more completed form HTL page
would look like so on your form page that each table.
Realistically you're going to have something that looks like this.
So we've had some added bootstrap class styling calls and that's the div class container.
And we're also calling the form as underscore P which uses a paragraph and that's going to allow you
to have a nicer lay out of your actual form going to return it within paragraph tags.
That way they're actually lined up from top to bottom instead of from left to right.
If you just use form by itself inside those two sets of curly brackets it's going to go from left to
right and you're not going to have a form looking for it that means top down instead of the left to
right and that gives you nice format's work with using those paragraph tags which are automatically
put there with the As.
Underscore P and you can also check the jingle docs for other methods.
You can request a form as a table for instance and work with it that way.
And you also notice that I added the C S R F underscore token tag.
So this is actually the first time we've encountered thinking about sites security measures that little
see as RF tag token that if we go back it's right underneath the actual form template tagging.
That is what is known as a cross site request forgery token and that secures the HTP post action that
is initiated on the subsequent submission of a form.
So when you click submit you have this cross-site requests for every token that helps protect the user
or your web site from getting false data or from a user accidentally sending that data somewhere else.
So the jingle framework actually requires that C S are tokens to be present.
If it's not there your form may just not work.
So that means jingoes security is actually built into the fact that it won't really work unless you
provide that token.
So you'll get in the habit of just from memory to provide that token whenever you're working with forms
and it generally works by using what's known as a hidden input which automatically uses some random
code and checks that it matches the user's local site page.
We don't know.
We don't need to know a whole lot about how that random code is generated but basically just know you
always need to add in if we go back to slides.
You always need to add in that see SRF token to make sure your form works correctly and that it's secure
OK.
So again just need to remember to put that template together.
You don't need to worry about the background.
Now that we can show the form.
Let's discuss how to actually handle the form in a you.
OK so right now if you set up everything the way you've been describing and you had a submit button
there and your user clicked that nothing would happen.
And that's because we still need to inform you that if you actually get a post back me the user submits
and has a response to your request for information you should actually check if the data is valid and
if so you can then grab and use that data and you can actually do this by editing the view.
So far we just showed you a simple view.
We're going to talk about a more advanced one.
And later on we'll actually talk a lot more about form validation.
And you can have your own custom validation rules but for now upon receiving a validated form we'll
assume is just valid.
We can access what's known as a dictionary like attribute of that actual data called clean data.
And this will look something like this.
So this is inside your applications views that py file.
We've edited the view a little bit.
First we just had that form is equal to forms that form name and then we had all the way at the bottom
that render request form page or a symbol and then the form form.
And what we've added is everything in the middle.
So the basic steps looked like this.
First you check to see if you actually get a post back meaning if the request method is equal to post.
That means your user hit submit and is posting something back in which case you want to pass in that
request.
So you say now is form is equal to forms that form name pass in the request post and then you want to
check if the form is valid.
And we'll talk a lot more about form validation in a future lecture.
But once you have that you can call form doc clean data and then access the information with a key dictionary
call.
So here you can see I'm just printing it out straight into the con..
So I'll say for validation success prints in the console and then they will print out the name email
and text they provided in that form.
So it was a very simple form just asking for three fields.
OK so we still have a lot more topics to cover like customizing form validation connecting forms to
a model which we haven't even really discussed yet.
But before we do all that let's get some practice with what we know so far and create a basic form project
an application from scratch that's really going to help your understanding.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.
We're going to be coding everything we just talked about.